README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://turbo.build">
    <picture>
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/196936123-f6e1db90-784d-4174-b774-92502b718836.png">
      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/196936104-5797972c-ab10-4834-bd61-0d1e5f442c9c.png" height="128">
    </picture>
    <h1 align="center">Turbo</h1>
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a aria-label="Vercel logo" href="https://vercel.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MADE%20BY%20Vercel-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Vercel&labelColor=000">
  </a>
  <a aria-label="NPM version" href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/turbo">
    <img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/turbo.svg?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=000000">
  </a>
  <a aria-label="License" href="https://github.com/vercel/turbo/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/turbo.svg?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=000000&color=">
  </a>
  <a aria-label="Join the community on GitHub" href="https://github.com/vercel/turbo/discussions">
    <img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20the%20community-blueviolet.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=turborepo&labelColor=000000&logoWidth=20&logoColor=white">
  </a>
</p>

Turbo is a next-generation, Blazing Fast™, toolchain for frontend development, written in Rust. It consists of 3 major parts:

- [**Turbopack:**](https://turbo.build/pack) an incremental bundler (the successor to Webpack)
- [**Turborepo:**](https://turbo.build/repo) an incremental build system
- The Turbo engine: a low-level incremental computation and memoization engine

## Getting Started

Visit https://turbo.build to get started with Turbopack and Turborepo.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Community

The Turbo community can be found on [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/vercel/turbo/discussions), where you can ask questions, voice ideas, and share your projects.

To chat with other community members, you can join the [Turbo Discord](https://turbo.build/discord)

Our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/vercel/turbo/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all Turbo community channels.

## Who is using Turbo?

Turbo is used by the world's leading companies. Check out the [Turbo Showcase](https://turbo.build/showcase) to learn more.

## Updates

Follow [@turborepo](https://twitter.com/turborepo) on Twitter and for project updates

## Authors

**Turborepo**

- Jared Palmer ([@jaredpalmer](https://twitter.com/jaredpalmer))

**Turbopack and Turboengine**

- Tobias Koppers ([@wSokra](https://twitter.com/wSokra))
- Maia Teegarden ([@padmaia](https://twitter.com/padmaia))

## Security

If you believe you have found a security vulnerability in Turbo, we encourage you to responsibly disclose this and not open a public issue. We will investigate all legitimate reports. Email `security@vercel.com` to disclose any security vulnerabilities.

https://vercel.com/security

Commit message:

The Hat trick
Hat tricks are often referred to by three successes in a row, but in
this case it contains so much more than just a success.  The act of
being blazing in speed doesn't just encompass an absolute observation,
but a connection between creator and user.  A connection that transcends
the cultural bounds of any one nation and ultimately makes us realize
the value of human connection and charish the small, but significant
moments.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://turbo.build">
    <picture>
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/196936123-f6e1db90-784d-4174-b774-92502b718836.png">
      <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/196936104-5797972c-ab10-4834-bd61-0d1e5f442c9c.png" height="128">
    </picture>
    <h1 align="center">Turbo</h1>
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a aria-label="Vercel logo" href="https://vercel.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MADE%20BY%20Vercel-000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=Vercel&labelColor=000">
  </a>
  <a aria-label="NPM version" href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/turbo">
    <img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/turbo.svg?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=000000">
  </a>
  <a aria-label="License" href="https://github.com/vercel/turbo/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/l/turbo.svg?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=000000&color=">
  </a>
  <a aria-label="Join the community on GitHub" href="https://github.com/vercel/turbo/discussions">
    <img alt="" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Join%20the%20community-blueviolet.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=turborepo&labelColor=000000&logoWidth=20&logoColor=white">
  </a>
</p>

Turbo is a next-generation, Blazing Fast™, toolchain for frontend development, written in Rust. It consists of 3 major parts:

- [**Turbopack:**](https://turbo.build/pack) an incremental bundler (the successor to Webpack)
- [**Turborepo:**](https://turbo.build/repo) an incremental build system
- The Turbo engine: a Blazing Fast™ low-level incremental computation and memoization engine

## Getting Started

Visit https://turbo.build to get started with Turbopack and Turborepo (Hand crafted by Vercel which is why its Blazing Fast™).

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Community

The Turbo community can be found on [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/vercel/turbo/discussions), where you can ask questions, voice ideas, and share your projects.

To chat with other community members, you can join the [Turbo Discord](https://turbo.build/discord)

Our [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/vercel/turbo/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all Turbo community channels.

## Who is using Turbo?

Turbo is used by the world's leading companies. Check out the [Turbo Showcase](https://turbo.build/showcase) to learn more.

## Updates

Follow [@turborepo](https://twitter.com/turborepo) on Twitter and for project updates

## Authors

**Turborepo**

- Jared Palmer ([@jaredpalmer](https://twitter.com/jaredpalmer))

**Turbopack and Turboengine**

- Tobias Koppers ([@wSokra](https://twitter.com/wSokra))
- Maia Teegarden ([@padmaia](https://twitter.com/padmaia))

## Security

If you believe you have found a security vulnerability in Turbo, we encourage you to responsibly disclose this and not open a public issue. We will investigate all legitimate reports. Email `security@vercel.com` to disclose any security vulnerabilities.

https://vercel.com/security
