troubleshooting.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

These are some common issues when starting.

## “cargo-nextest” cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified.

On Macs, unsigned binaries cannot be run by default. To manually approve this
app, go to: Apple menu > System Preferences, click Security & Privacy , then
click General. You'll see "“cargo-nextest” was blocked from use because it is
not from an identified developer". Click the Allow Anyway button, and
`cargo-nexttest` can be run on the next invocation.

See https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/open-a-mac-app-from-an-unidentified-developer-mh40616/mac

## Cannot `yarn install` because of oniguruma

Oniguruma doesn't yet provide a prebuild binary for arm64 MacOS. And, MacOS
isn't providing a python2 environment by default anymore! We need to setup your
python environment, much like we would setup your node env:

```shell
brew install pyenv
eval "$(pyenv init --path)"
pyenv install 2.7.18
pyenv local 2.7.18
```

Now try `yarn install` again.

See the `canvas` tip below, and https://stackoverflow.com/a/67274521.

## Cannot `yarn install` because of canvas

Canvas also doesn't provide an arm64 prebuilt binary. To manually compile,
you'll need to install the following packages:

If running `yarn` fails on macOS, you might need to install the following packages: `python`, `pkg-config`, `pixman`, `cairo`, `pango`. If you're running Zsh and Homebrew, you can run the following commands before running `yarn`.

```shell
brew install pkg-config pixman cairo pango
```

Now try `yarn install` again.

See the `oniguruma` tip above, and https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas/blob/master/Readme.md#compiling.

Commit message:

Migrate to pnpm (#336)
### turbo tracing in pnpm projects

How pnpm link packages:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3468483/191022172-962af095-9b44-4b69-8e2f-1e8d440d1c31.png)

After turbo tracing:

```
dist
├── crates
│   └── turbopack
│       └── tests
│           └── node-file-trace
│               ├── integration
│               └── node_modules
│                   └── better-sqlite3 -> ../../../../../node_modules/.pnpm/better-sqlite3@7.6.2/node_modules/better-sqlite3
└── node_modules
    └── .pnpm
        ├── better-sqlite3@7.6.2
        │   └── node_modules
        │       ├── better-sqlite3
        │       │   ├── build
        │       │   │   └── Release
        │       │   └── lib
        │       │       └── methods
        │       └── bindings -> ../../bindings@1.5.0/node_modules/bindings
        ├── bindings@1.5.0
        │   └── node_modules
        │       ├── bindings
        │       └── file-uri-to-path -> ../../file-uri-to-path@1.0.0/node_modules/file-uri-to-path
        └── file-uri-to-path@1.0.0
            └── node_modules
                └── file-uri-to-path
```

No more **global .pnpm store**. The directory link will follow the original path created by pnpm.

troubleshooting.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

These are some common issues when starting.

## “cargo-nextest” cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified.

On Macs, unsigned binaries cannot be run by default. To manually approve this
app, go to: Apple menu > System Preferences, click Security & Privacy , then
click General. You'll see "“cargo-nextest” was blocked from use because it is
not from an identified developer". Click the Allow Anyway button, and
`cargo-nexttest` can be run on the next invocation.

See https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/open-a-mac-app-from-an-unidentified-developer-mh40616/mac

## Cannot `pnpm install` because of oniguruma

Oniguruma doesn't yet provide a prebuild binary for arm64 MacOS. And, MacOS
isn't providing a python2 environment by default anymore! We need to setup your
python environment, much like we would setup your node env:

```shell
brew install pyenv
eval "$(pyenv init --path)"
pyenv install 2.7.18
pyenv local 2.7.18
```

Now try `pnpm install` again.

See the `canvas` tip below, and https://stackoverflow.com/a/67274521.

## Cannot `pnpm install` because of canvas

Canvas also doesn't provide an arm64 prebuilt binary. To manually compile,
you'll need to install the following packages:

If running `pnpm` fails on macOS, you might need to install the following packages: `python`, `pkg-config`, `pixman`, `cairo`, `pango`. If you're running Zsh and Homebrew, you can run the following commands before running `pnpm`.

```shell
brew install pkg-config pixman cairo pango
```

Now try `pnpm install` again.

See the `oniguruma` tip above, and https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas/blob/master/Readme.md#compiling.
