packages/turbo-tracing-next-plugin/README.md, before:

# `@vercel/turbo-tracing-next-plugin`

## Installation

-   yarn add -D `@vercel/turbo-tracing-next-plugin`
-   npm install -D `@vercel/turbo-tracing-next-plugin`
-   pnpm install -D `@vercel/turbo-tracing-next-plugin`

## Usage

```js
// next.config.js

const { withTurboTracing } = require('@vercel/turbo-tracing-next-plugin')

module.exports = withTurboTracing({
    // turbo tracing options
    log: {
        all: true,
    },
})({
    // next config
})
```

### turbo tracing options

> **Note**
>
> The default options should work fine.

-   `cwd?: string`, default is `process.cwd()`, you can override it to specify another directory to run turbo tracing.
-   `contextDirectory?: string`, relative to cwd, default is `.`.
-   `path?: string`, additional path which will be appended into the `PATH` environment variable.
-   `log?.all?: boolean`, default is `false`, whether to show all logs.
-   `log?.level?: string`, default is `error`, the log level.
-   `log?.detail?: boolean`, default is `false`, whether to expand the log details.

Commit message:

Rename npm packages to experimental-nft (#350)
- [x] Add MPL-2.0 License
- [x] Rename package names to `nft`
- [x] Publish to the public npm registry

packages/turbo-tracing-next-plugin/README.md, after:

# `@vercel/experimental-nft-next-plugin`

## Installation

-   yarn add -D `@vercel/experimental-nft-next-plugin`
-   npm install -D `@vercel/experimental-nft-next-plugin`
-   pnpm install -D `@vercel/experimental-nft-next-plugin`

## Usage

```js
// next.config.js

const { createNodeFileTrace } = require('@vercel/experimental-nft-next-plugin')

const withNodeFileTrace = createNodeFileTrace({
    // experimental nft options
    log: {
        all: true,
    },
})

module.exports = withNodeFileTrace({
    // next config
})
```

### experimental nft options

> **Note**
>
> The default options should work fine.

> **Warn**
>
> The experimental nft does not support pnpm yet.

-   `cwd?: string`, default is `process.cwd()`, you can override it to specify another directory to run experimental nft.
-   `contextDirectory?: string`, relative to cwd, default is `.`. It must be the directory where the `node_modules` directory is located. If you are in the monorepo, you should set it to the root directory of the monorepo. For yarn2+/npm workspaces, the default value will respect the `PROJECT_CWD` and `npm_config_local_prefix` environment variables injected by yarn/npm client. If the default value doesn't work, you can override it to specify the root directory of the monorepo.
-   `path?: string`, additional path which will be appended into the `PATH` environment variable.
-   `log?.all?: boolean`, default is `false`, whether to show all logs.
-   `log?.level?: string`, default is `error`, the log level.
-   `log?.detail?: boolean`, default is `false`, whether to expand the log details.
