docs/pages/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Turborepo Quickstart
description: Create your first monorepo or add Turborepo to an existing project.
---

import { QuickStartArea, LearnMoreArea, MonoreposArea } from "../../components/QuickStart";
import { ExamplesArea } from "../../components/ExamplesArea";

# Turborepo Quickstart

Turborepo is a smart **task runner for JavaScript/TypeScript codebases**.

Your codebase's tasks - like `lint`, `build` and `test` - **don't run as fast as they could**. Turborepo uses [caching](/docs/core-concepts/caching) to turbocharge your local setup and speed up your CI.

Turborepo is designed to be **incrementally adopted**, so you can add it to most codebases in a few minutes.

<QuickStartArea />

## Features

Turborepo leverages advanced build system techniques to speed up development, **both on your local machine and your CI/CD**.

<LearnMoreArea />

## Monorepos

Turborepo works out-of-the-box with monorepo tools like `npm`, `pnpm` and `yarn`. If you've ever felt that your monorepo slowed you down, it might be time for Turborepo.

<MonoreposArea />

## Examples

You can also clone a Turborepo starter repository to get a head start on your monorepo. For even more examples and starters, see the [Turborepo examples directory on GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/tree/main/examples).

<ExamplesArea />

Commit message:

copy: task runner -> "build system" (#2297)

docs/pages/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Turborepo Quickstart
description: Create your first monorepo or add Turborepo to an existing project.
---

import { QuickStartArea, LearnMoreArea, MonoreposArea } from "../../components/QuickStart";
import { ExamplesArea } from "../../components/ExamplesArea";

# Turborepo Quickstart

Turborepo is an intelligent **build system optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript codebases**.

Your codebase's tasks - like `lint`, `build` and `test` - **don't run as fast as they could**. Turborepo uses [caching](/docs/core-concepts/caching) to turbocharge your local setup and speed up your CI.

Turborepo is designed to be **incrementally adopted**, so you can add it to most codebases in a few minutes.

<QuickStartArea />

## Features

Turborepo leverages advanced build system techniques to speed up development, **both on your local machine and your CI/CD**.

<LearnMoreArea />

## Monorepos

Turborepo works out-of-the-box with monorepo tools like `npm`, `pnpm` and `yarn`. If you've ever felt that your monorepo slowed you down, it might be time for Turborepo.

<MonoreposArea />

## Examples

You can also clone a Turborepo starter repository to get a head start on your monorepo. For even more examples and starters, see the [Turborepo examples directory on GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/tree/main/examples).

<ExamplesArea />
