docs/pages/pack/docs/features/css.mdx, before:

# CSS

## Global CSS

Importing CSS into global scope is supported **out-of-the-box** in Turbopack.

```ts
import './globals.css';
```

Transpilation is handled by SWC. TODO - is this true?

## CSS Modules

Turbopack handles CSS Modules out-of-the-box. Any file with a `.module.css` extension will be considered a CSS module, and you can import it into a JavaScript or TypeScript file:

```tsx Component.tsx
import cssExports from './phone.module.css'
```

This follows the same rules set out by [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/built-in-css-support#adding-component-level-css) - letting you easiy distinguish between global and scoped CSS.

## `postcss-nested`

Turbopack handles [`postcss-nested`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/postcss-nested) syntax out-of-the-box. This useful library lets you nest CSS declarations inside each other:

```css phone.css
.phone {
    &_title {
        width: 500px;
        @media (max-width: 500px) {
            width: auto;
        }
        body.is_dark & {
            color: white;
        }
    }
    img {
        display: block;
    }
}
```

## PostCSS Plugins

Doesn't work out of the box - available further down the line via plugins.

## `@import` syntax

Works

## SCSS and LESS

Don't work out of the box - available further down the line via plugins.

Commit message:

Added more pages to features (#153)
Co-authored-by: Thomas Knickman <tom.knickman@vercel.com>

docs/pages/pack/docs/features/css.mdx, after:

# CSS

CSS bundling is handled by SWC, using a Rust crate called `swc_css`. We haven't yet documented `swc_css` separately, but it's integrated into Turbopack and supports several CSS features:

## Global CSS

Importing CSS into global scope is supported **out-of-the-box** in Turbopack.

```ts
import './globals.css';
```

## CSS Modules

Turbopack handles CSS Modules out-of-the-box. Any file with a `.module.css` extension will be considered a CSS module, and you can import it into a JavaScript or TypeScript file:

```tsx Component.tsx
import cssExports from './phone.module.css'
```

This follows the same rules set out by [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/built-in-css-support#adding-component-level-css) - letting you easiy distinguish between global and scoped CSS.

## `postcss-nested`

Turbopack handles [`postcss-nested`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/postcss-nested) syntax out-of-the-box. This useful library lets you nest CSS declarations inside each other:

```css phone.css
.phone {
    &_title {
        width: 500px;
        @media (max-width: 500px) {
            width: auto;
        }
        body.is_dark & {
            color: white;
        }
    }
    img {
        display: block;
    }
}
```

## `@import` syntax

Using the CSS `@import` syntax to import other CSS files works **out-of-the-box**. This gives you the ability to combine several CSS files together into a single module:

```css filename="globals.css"
@import './modal.css';
@import './dark.css';
```

## PostCSS

PostCSS gives you the ability to use plugins to enhance your CSS toolchain. It's been an invaluable tool for integrating libraries like Tailwind and `autoprefixer` into applications.

The most common pattern is adding a `postcss.config.js` file to the root of your application, where you can import and configure your plugins.

We **don't currently offer** the ability to use PostCSS plugins. We may end up adding these out-of-the-box, or make them available via a plugin.

## SCSS and LESS

`.scss` and `.less` files let you utilize SCSS and LESS - languages which enhance CSS in various ways. These languages **don't currently work** out-of-the-box with Turbopack.

These are likely to be available via plugins in the future.
