docs/pages/pack/docs/comparisons/turbopack-vs-webpack.mdx, before:

import { DocsBenchmarksGraph } from '../../../../components/pages/pack-home/DocsBenchmarksGraph';
import { DocsBenchmarkStat } from '../../../../components/pages/pack-home/DocsBenchmarkStat';

# Turbopack vs Webpack

We've built Turbopack as the successor of Webpack - the bundler that's at the heart of many beloved frameworks. Any successor to Webpack would need to be **faster** and just as **flexible and extensible**.

## Speed

Turbopack's incremental architecture outstrips Webpack's speed on several key metrics:

### Dev server startup time

Turbopack's dev server starts up much faster than Webpack. Next.js 12, which uses Webpack under the hood, can start up a build server on a 1,000 module application in <DocsBenchmarkStat stat="next12-cold-1000" />. Turbopack starts up in <DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-cold-1000" /> - **<DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-cold-vs-next12" /> faster**.

<DocsBenchmarksGraph category="cold" bars={[
  {
    label: 'Turbopack',
    turbo: true,
    key: 'next13'
  },
  {
    label: 'Webpack',
    key: 'next12',
  }
]} />

### Code updates

The most common action you'll perform on a dev server is changing files. When a file changes, it needs to render the change to the browser. The faster it can do that, the tighter your feedback loop and the faster you'll ship.

In a 1,000 module application, Turbopack can react to file changes **<DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-update-vs-next12" /> faster** than Webpack:

<DocsBenchmarksGraph category="file_change" bars={[
  {
    label: 'Turbopack',
    turbo: true,
    key: 'next13'
  },
  {
    label: 'Webpack',
    key: 'next12',
  }
]} />

## Extensibility

Webpack has an extraordinary collection of [plugins](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/) to customize its behavior. Composing plugins lets you create custom toolchains which can support a huge variety of bundler features.

In its alpha state, Turbopack cannot currently be configured with plugins. In the future, we plan to make Turbopack just as extensible as Webpack - though likely with an altered API.

Commit message:

add benchmark documentation and blog post (#2492)
Co-authored-by: Anthony Shew <anthony.shew@vercel.com>
Co-authored-by: Jared Palmer <jared@jaredpalmer.com>
Co-authored-by: Maia Teegarden <dev@padmaia.rocks>
Co-authored-by: Will Binns-Smith <wbinnssmith@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Alex Kirszenberg <alex.kirszenberg@vercel.com>
Co-authored-by: Matt Pocock <mattpocockvoice@gmail.com>

docs/pages/pack/docs/comparisons/turbopack-vs-webpack.mdx, after:

---
title: Turbopack vs. Webpack
description: Compare Turbopack vs. Webpack
---

import { DocsBenchmarksGraph } from '../../../../components/pages/pack-home/DocsBenchmarksGraph';
import { DocsBenchmarkStat } from '../../../../components/pages/pack-home/DocsBenchmarkStat';
import BenchmarksCallout from './BenchmarksCallout';

# Turbopack vs Webpack

Webpack has been downloaded over 3 billion times, making it today's most common JavaScript bundler. However, we found that we'd hit the limits of what it could do with its JavaScript-based architecture.

We've built Turbopack as the successor of Webpack: much **faster**, but just as **flexible and extensible**.

<BenchmarksCallout />

## Speed

Turbopack's incremental architecture outstrips Webpack's speed on several key metrics.

### Dev server startup time

The main problem we found with Webpack was development server startup time. If you end up importing a lot of modules in a certain page and open that page in your browser, the initial compile will take a few seconds. If you change routes in your development environment, you have to wait for a similar compile again for your new page.

We designed Turbopack to be as lazy as possible, only doing work when it's requested. In a dev server, this means on incoming requests we do **exactly the work the user asked for**. No more unnecessary bundling of on demand loaded code before the user needs it. You can learn more in our [core concepts docs](/pack/docs/core-concepts#compiling-by-request).

This means that Turbopack's dev server starts up much faster than Webpack. Next.js 12, which uses Webpack under the hood, can start up a build server on a 1,000 module application in <DocsBenchmarkStat stat="next12-cold-1000" />. Turbopack starts up in <DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-cold-1000" /> - **<DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-cold-vs-next12" /> faster**.

<DocsBenchmarksGraph category="cold" bars={[
  {
    label: 'Turbopack',
    turbo: true,
    key: 'next13'
  },
  {
    label: 'Webpack',
    key: 'next12',
  }
]} />

### Code updates

As we continued to optimize Webpack, we found a performance ceiling on how much faster we could make Fast Refresh. With around 2,000 components, the best number we could produce was 500ms. This mark was a tremendous feat in Next.js 12. Previously, that process would have taken around 10 seconds.

With Turbopack, we achieved the goal we were aiming for: Fast Refresh performance that stays near-constant, no matter your application size. Instead of scaling with your application size, it scales based on the size of the _changes made_.

In a 1,000 module application, Turbopack can react to file changes **<DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-update-vs-next12" /> faster** than Webpack. In a 30,000 module application, this is **<DocsBenchmarkStat stat="turbopack-update-vs-next12-30000" /> faster**.

<DocsBenchmarksGraph category="file_change" bars={[
  {
    label: 'Turbopack',
    turbo: true,
    key: 'next13'
  },
  {
    label: 'Webpack',
    key: 'next12',
  }
]} />

## Extensibility

Webpack has an extraordinary collection of [plugins](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/) to customize its behavior. Composing plugins lets you create custom toolchains which can support a huge variety of bundler features.

In its alpha state, Turbopack cannot currently be configured with plugins. In the future, we plan to make Turbopack just as extensible as Webpack - though likely with an altered API.
