docs/pages/docs/guides/monorepo-tools.mdx, before:

---
title: Awesome Monorepo Tools
description: Versioning, publishing, changelogs, linting, testing, automation, and more.
---

# Awesome Monorepo Tools

Below is a running list of additional monorepo tools that you may find useful in your turborepo.

💯 = stuff we use or have used in [Turborepo's own monorepo](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo).

## Versioning, Publishing, and Changelog Generation

For the foreseeable future, `turbo` will not manage publishing workspaces as packages. Versioning/Publishing is an extremely opinionated topic with many existing solutions. We advise avoiding versioning workspace altogether unless you need to publish them to npm for external consumption. If you have to version your workspace, we like the workflow of Changesets (especially for open source projects).

- [changesets/changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) - 🦋 A way to manage your versioning and changelogs with a focus on monorepos
- [microsoft/beachball](https://github.com/microsoft/beachball) - The Sunniest Semantic Version Bumper
- [lerna/lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) - A tool for managing JavaScript projects with multiple workspaces.
- [lerna/lerna-changelog](https://github.com/lerna/lerna-changelog) - PR-based changelog generator with monorepo support
- [intuit/auto](https://github.com/intuit/auto) - Generate releases based on semantic version labels on pull requests.

## Codebase Linting

- [typicode/husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) - Modern native Git hooks made easy!
- [okonet/lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged) - Run linters on git staged files
- [danger/danger-js](https://github.com/danger/danger-js) - ⚠️ Stop saying "you forgot to …" in code review

## e2e Testing

- [cypress-io/cypress](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress) - Fast, easy and reliable testing for anything that runs in a browser.
- [cypress-io/github-action](https://github.com/cypress-io/github-action) - Run Cypress in GitHub Actions
- [microsoft/playwright](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright) - Build a cross-browser end-to-end test suite with Playwright.
- [microsoft/playwright-github-action](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright-github-action) - Run Playwright tests on GitHub Actions

## Automation

- [Kodiak](https://kodiakhq.com/) - Automate your GitHub Pull Request merge behavior 💯
- [preactjs/compressed-size-action](https://github.com/preactjs/compressed-size-action) - GitHub Action that adds compressed size changes to your PRs.

## Codemods and Code Generation

We are planning to officially add code generation to `turbo` sometime in the future. In the meantime, we suggest using [plopjs/plop](https://github.com/plopjs/plop).

- [sapegin/mrm](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm) - Codemods for your project config files
- [plopjs/plop](https://github.com/plopjs/plop) - Codegen CLI
- [facebook/jscodeshift](https://github.com/facebook/jscodeshift) - A JavaScript codemod toolkit.
- [codemod-js/codemod](https://github.com/codemod-js/codemod) - Rewrites JavaScript and TypeScript using babel plugins.
- [airbnb/ts-migrate](https://github.com/airbnb/ts-migrate) - A tool to help migrate JavaScript code quickly and conveniently to TypeScript
- [dotansimha/graphql-code-generator](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator) - A tool for generating code based on a GraphQL schema and GraphQL operations (query/mutation/subscription), with flexible support for custom plugins. 💯
- [swagger-api/swagger-codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) - swagger-codegen contains a template-driven engine to generate documentation, API clients and server stubs in different languages by parsing your OpenAPI / Swagger definition.

## Infrastructure as Code

One of the cool things we discovered when building Turborepo is how beautifully it works with infrastructure-as-code solutions.

- [pulumi/pulumi](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi) - Modern Infrastructure as Code. Any cloud, any language
- [aws/aws-cdk](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk) - The AWS Cloud Development Kit is a framework for defining cloud infrastructure in code

## Miscellaneous

- [volta-cli/volta](https://github.com/volta-cli/volta) - JS Toolchains as Code (A better NVM)
- [ds300/patch-package](https://github.com/ds300/patch-package) - Fix broken node modules instantly (without forking) 💯 💯 💯
- [atlassian/yarn-deduplicate](https://github.com/atlassian/yarn-deduplicate) - Deduplication tool for yarn.lock files
- [wclr/yalc](https://github.com/wclr/yalc) - Work with yarn/npm packages locally like a boss. (It's like `yarn link` that actually works)
- [verdaccio/verdaccio](https://github.com/verdaccio/verdaccio) - 📦🔐A lightweight private proxy registry build in Node.js

Commit message:

added code-shaper to code generation tools (#1909)
Co-authored-by: Mehul Kar <490968+mehulkar@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/pages/docs/guides/monorepo-tools.mdx, after:

---
title: Awesome Monorepo Tools
description: Versioning, publishing, changelogs, linting, testing, automation, and more.
---

# Awesome Monorepo Tools

Below is a running list of additional monorepo tools that you may find useful in your turborepo.

💯 = stuff we use or have used in [Turborepo's own monorepo](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo).

## Versioning, Publishing, and Changelog Generation

For the foreseeable future, `turbo` will not manage publishing workspaces as packages. Versioning/Publishing is an extremely opinionated topic with many existing solutions. We advise avoiding versioning workspace altogether unless you need to publish them to npm for external consumption. If you have to version your workspace, we like the workflow of Changesets (especially for open source projects).

- [changesets/changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) - 🦋 A way to manage your versioning and changelogs with a focus on monorepos
- [microsoft/beachball](https://github.com/microsoft/beachball) - The Sunniest Semantic Version Bumper
- [lerna/lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna) - A tool for managing JavaScript projects with multiple workspaces.
- [lerna/lerna-changelog](https://github.com/lerna/lerna-changelog) - PR-based changelog generator with monorepo support
- [intuit/auto](https://github.com/intuit/auto) - Generate releases based on semantic version labels on pull requests.

## Codebase Linting

- [typicode/husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) - Modern native Git hooks made easy!
- [okonet/lint-staged](https://github.com/okonet/lint-staged) - Run linters on git staged files
- [danger/danger-js](https://github.com/danger/danger-js) - ⚠️ Stop saying "you forgot to …" in code review

## e2e Testing

- [cypress-io/cypress](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress) - Fast, easy and reliable testing for anything that runs in a browser.
- [cypress-io/github-action](https://github.com/cypress-io/github-action) - Run Cypress in GitHub Actions
- [microsoft/playwright](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright) - Build a cross-browser end-to-end test suite with Playwright.
- [microsoft/playwright-github-action](https://github.com/microsoft/playwright-github-action) - Run Playwright tests on GitHub Actions

## Automation

- [Kodiak](https://kodiakhq.com/) - Automate your GitHub Pull Request merge behavior 💯
- [preactjs/compressed-size-action](https://github.com/preactjs/compressed-size-action) - GitHub Action that adds compressed size changes to your PRs.

## Codemods and Code Generation

We are planning to officially add code generation to `turbo` sometime in the future. In the meantime, we suggest using [plopjs/plop](https://github.com/plopjs/plop).

- [sapegin/mrm](https://github.com/sapegin/mrm) - Codemods for your project config files
- [code-shaper/code-shaper](https://www.code-shaper.dev/) - Plugin-based code generation tool to scaffold applications and components. Built-in support for Turborepo. Off-the-shelf plugins for frameworks like React & Next.js, or write your own for custom patterns.
- [plopjs/plop](https://github.com/plopjs/plop) - Codegen CLI
- [facebook/jscodeshift](https://github.com/facebook/jscodeshift) - A JavaScript codemod toolkit.
- [codemod-js/codemod](https://github.com/codemod-js/codemod) - Rewrites JavaScript and TypeScript using babel plugins.
- [airbnb/ts-migrate](https://github.com/airbnb/ts-migrate) - A tool to help migrate JavaScript code quickly and conveniently to TypeScript
- [dotansimha/graphql-code-generator](https://github.com/dotansimha/graphql-code-generator) - A tool for generating code based on a GraphQL schema and GraphQL operations (query/mutation/subscription), with flexible support for custom plugins. 💯
- [swagger-api/swagger-codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) - swagger-codegen contains a template-driven engine to generate documentation, API clients and server stubs in different languages by parsing your OpenAPI / Swagger definition.

## Infrastructure as Code

One of the cool things we discovered when building Turborepo is how beautifully it works with infrastructure-as-code solutions.

- [pulumi/pulumi](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi) - Modern Infrastructure as Code. Any cloud, any language
- [aws/aws-cdk](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk) - The AWS Cloud Development Kit is a framework for defining cloud infrastructure in code

## Miscellaneous

- [volta-cli/volta](https://github.com/volta-cli/volta) - JS Toolchains as Code (A better NVM)
- [ds300/patch-package](https://github.com/ds300/patch-package) - Fix broken node modules instantly (without forking) 💯 💯 💯
- [atlassian/yarn-deduplicate](https://github.com/atlassian/yarn-deduplicate) - Deduplication tool for yarn.lock files
- [wclr/yalc](https://github.com/wclr/yalc) - Work with yarn/npm packages locally like a boss. (It's like `yarn link` that actually works)
- [verdaccio/verdaccio](https://github.com/verdaccio/verdaccio) - 📦🔐A lightweight private proxy registry build in Node.js
