docs/pages/docs/core-concepts/pipelines.mdx, before:

---
title: Pipelines
description: Pipelines with Turborepo specify task relationships explicitly and conventionally.
---

import Callout from "../../../components/Callout";
import HeartIcon from "@heroicons/react/solid/HeartIcon";

# Pipelining Workspace Tasks

In traditional monorepo task runners, like `lerna` or even `yarn`'s own built-in `workspaces run` command, each npm lifecycle script like `build` or `test` is run [topologically](../glossary#topological-order) (which is the mathematical term for "dependency-first" order) or in parallel individually. Depending on the dependency graph of the monorepo, CPU cores might be left idle—wasting valuable time and resources.

Turborepo gives developers a way to specify task relationships explicitly and conventionally. The advantage here is twofold:

1. `turbo` can use this explicit declaration to perform an optimized and scheduled execution based on the abundant availability of multi-core processors.
1. New developers to a project can look at the Turborepo `pipeline` and understand how tasks are related.

To give you a sense of how powerful this can be, the diagram below compares the `turbo` and `lerna` task execution timelines:

![Turborepo vs. Lerna Task Execution](/images/docs/turbo-vs-lerna-execution.png)

Notice that `turbo` is able to schedule tasks efficiently--collapsing waterfalls--whereas `lerna` can only execute one task a time. The results speak for themselves.

## Defining a `pipeline`

To define your monorepo's task dependency graph, use the [`pipeline`](../reference/configuration#pipeline) key in the `turbo.json` configuration file at the root of your monorepo. `turbo` interprets this configuration to schedule, execute, and cache the outputs of the tasks in your monorepo.

Each key in the [`pipeline`](../reference/configuration#pipeline) object is the name of a task that `turbo` will be able to execute using [`turbo run <task>`](../reference/command-line-reference#turbo-run-task1-task2-1). Each task can also be configured to specify dependencies (with the [`dependsOn`](../reference/configuration#dependson) key) as well as other options for [caching](./caching). Workspaces that do not have this task defined in their `package.json`'s list of `scripts` will be ignored during `turbo run`.

An example Pipeline configuration in `turbo.json`:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts"]
    },
    "lint": {
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

The rough execution order for a given workspace based on the `dependsOn` keys above will be:

1. `build` once its dependencies have run their `build` commands
2. `test` once its _own_ `build` command is finished
3. `lint` whenever
4. `deploy` once its _own_ `build`, `test`, and `lint` commands have finished

The full pipeline can then be run:

```bash
npx turbo run deploy
```

Turborepo will then efficiently schedule execution minimizing idle CPUs.

## Defining a pipeline

The `pipeline` configuration declares which tasks depend on each other in your monorepo. You define it in the `turbo.json` file at the root of your monorepo. Here's a kitchen sink example:

```diff
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
+      // A workspace's `build` task depends on that workspace's
+      // topological dependencies' and devDependencies'
+      // `build` tasks  being completed first. The `^` symbol
+      // indicates an upstream dependency.
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
+      // A workspace's `test` task depends on that workspace's
+      // own `build` task being completed first.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
+      // A workspace's `test` task should only be rerun when
+      // either a `.tsx` or `.ts` file has changed.
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.tsx"]
    },
    "lint": {
+      // A workspace's `lint` task has no dependencies and
+      // can be run whenever.
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
+      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
+      // `test`, and `lint` tasks of the same workspace
+      // being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

Let's walk through some common patterns you'll want to get to know before diving in to `turbo.json`.

### Dependencies between tasks

#### In the same workspace

There might be tasks which need to run _before_ other tasks. For instance, `build` might need to be run before `deploy`.

If both tasks are in the same workspace, you can specify the relationship like this:

```json filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {},
    "deploy": {
      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
      // task of the same workspace being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

This means that whenever `turbo run deploy` is run, `build` will also be run inside the same workspace.

#### In a different workspace

A common pattern in monorepos is to declare that a workspace's `build` task should only run once the `build` tasks of all _the workspaces it depends on_ are complete.

The `^` symbol explicitly declares that the task has a [topological](../glossary#topological-order-1) dependency on another task.

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      // "A workspace's `build` command depends on its dependencies'
      // and devDependencies' `build` commands being completed first"
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### No dependencies

An empty dependency list (`dependsOn` is either undefined or `[]`) means that nothing needs to run before this task! After all, it has NO dependencies.

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "lint": {
      // A workspace's `lint` command has no dependencies and can be run
      // whenever.
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

#### Specific workspace-tasks

Sometimes, you may want to create a workspace-task dependency on another workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna` or `rush`, where tasks are run in separate phases by default. Sometimes these configurations make assumptions that cannot be expressed in a simple `pipeline` configuration, as seen above. Or you may just want to express sequences of tasks between applications or microservices when using `turbo` in CI/CD.

For these cases, you can express these relationships in your `pipeline` configuration using the `<workspace>#<task>` syntax.
The example below describes the `deploy` script of a `frontend` application that depends on the `deploy` and `health-check` scripts of `backend`, as well as the `test` script of a `ui` workspace:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    // Standard configuration
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    "deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["test", "build"],
      "outputs": []
    },

    // Explicit workspace-task to workspace-task dependency
    "frontend#deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["ui#test", "backend#deploy", "backend#health-check"],
      "outputs": []
    },
  }
}
```

This explicit configuration for `frontend#deploy` may seem to conflict with the `test` and `deploy` task configurations, but it does not. Since `test` and `deploy` do not have topological dependencies (e.g. `^<task>`), they can execute any time after their workspace's `build` and `test` scripts have finished.

<Callout>
  Notes:

1. Although this `<workspace>#<task>` syntax is a useful escape hatch, we generally recommend using it for deployment orchestration tasks such as health checks, rather than build-time dependencies, so that Turborepo can optimize these tasks more efficiently
1. Package-tasks do not inherit cache configuration. You must redeclare
   [`outputs`](../reference/configuration#outputs) at the moment.

</Callout>

### Running tasks from the root

`turbo` can run tasks that exist in the `package.json` file at the root of the monorepo.
These must be explicitly added to the pipeline configuration using the key syntax `"//#<task>"`. This is
true even for tasks that already have their own entry. For example, if your pipeline declares a `"build"` task,
and you want to include the `build` script defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` file with
`turbo run build`, you must opt the root into it by declaring `"//#build": {...}` in your configuration.
Conversely, you _do not_ need to define a generic `"my-task": {...}` entry if all you need is `"//#my-task": {...}`.

A sample pipeline that defines the root task `format` and opts the root into `test` might look like:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    // This will cause the "test" script to be included when
    // "turbo run test" is run
    "//#test": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": []
    },
    // This will cause the "format" script in the root package.json
    // to be run when "turbo run format" is run. Since the general
    // "format" task is not defined, only the root's "format" script
    // will be run.
    "//#format": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": ["dist/**/*"],
      "inputs": ["version.txt"]
    },
  }
}
```

**A note on recursion**: Scripts defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` often call `turbo` themselves.
For example, the `build` script might be `turbo run build`. In this situation, including `//#build` in
`turbo run build` will cause infinite recursion. It is for this reason that tasks run from the monorepo's root must
be explicitly opted into via including `//#<task>` in the pipeline configuration. `turbo` includes
some best-effort checking to produce an error in the recursion situations, but it is up to you to to only
opt in those tasks which don't themselves trigger a `turbo` run that would recurse.

<Callout type="idea" icon={<HeartIcon  className="h-5 w-5 mt-1 text-gray-400" aria-hidden="true" />}>
Turborepo's Pipeline API design and this page of documentation was inspired by [Microsoft's Lage project](https://microsoft.github.io/lage/docs/Guide/pipeline#defining-a-pipeline).
Shoutout to [Kenneth Chau](https://twitter.com/kenneth_chau) for the idea of fanning out tasks in such a concise and elegant way.
</Callout>

### Tips

#### Tasks that are in the `pipeline` but not in SOME `package.json`

Sometimes tasks declared in the `pipeline` are not present in all workspaces' `package.json` files. `turbo` will gracefully ignore those. No problem!

#### `pipeline` tasks are the only ones that `turbo` knows about

`turbo` will only account for tasks declared in the `pipeline` configuration. If it's not listed there, `turbo` will not know how to run them.

Commit message:

(Controversial) Removed glossary and mentions of topological from the docs

docs/pages/docs/core-concepts/pipelines.mdx, after:

---
title: Pipelines
description: Pipelines with Turborepo specify task relationships explicitly and conventionally.
---

import Callout from "../../../components/Callout";
import HeartIcon from "@heroicons/react/solid/HeartIcon";

# Pipelining Workspace Tasks

In traditional monorepo task runners, like `lerna` or even `yarn`'s own built-in `workspaces run` command, each npm lifecycle script like `build` or `test` is run [topologically](../glossary#topological-order) (which is the mathematical term for "dependency-first" order) or in parallel individually. Depending on the dependency graph of the monorepo, CPU cores might be left idle—wasting valuable time and resources.

Turborepo gives developers a way to specify task relationships explicitly and conventionally. The advantage here is twofold:

1. `turbo` can use this explicit declaration to perform an optimized and scheduled execution based on the abundant availability of multi-core processors.
1. New developers to a project can look at the Turborepo `pipeline` and understand how tasks are related.

To give you a sense of how powerful this can be, the diagram below compares the `turbo` and `lerna` task execution timelines:

![Turborepo vs. Lerna Task Execution](/images/docs/turbo-vs-lerna-execution.png)

Notice that `turbo` is able to schedule tasks efficiently--collapsing waterfalls--whereas `lerna` can only execute one task a time. The results speak for themselves.

## Defining a `pipeline`

To define your monorepo's task dependency graph, use the [`pipeline`](../reference/configuration#pipeline) key in the `turbo.json` configuration file at the root of your monorepo. `turbo` interprets this configuration to schedule, execute, and cache the outputs of the tasks in your monorepo.

Each key in the [`pipeline`](../reference/configuration#pipeline) object is the name of a task that `turbo` will be able to execute using [`turbo run <task>`](../reference/command-line-reference#turbo-run-task1-task2-1). Each task can also be configured to specify dependencies (with the [`dependsOn`](../reference/configuration#dependson) key) as well as other options for [caching](./caching). Workspaces that do not have this task defined in their `package.json`'s list of `scripts` will be ignored during `turbo run`.

An example Pipeline configuration in `turbo.json`:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts"]
    },
    "lint": {
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

The rough execution order for a given workspace based on the `dependsOn` keys above will be:

1. `build` once its dependencies have run their `build` commands
2. `test` once its _own_ `build` command is finished
3. `lint` whenever
4. `deploy` once its _own_ `build`, `test`, and `lint` commands have finished

The full pipeline can then be run:

```bash
npx turbo run deploy
```

Turborepo will then efficiently schedule execution minimizing idle CPUs.

## Defining a pipeline

The `pipeline` configuration declares which tasks depend on each other in your monorepo. You define it in the `turbo.json` file at the root of your monorepo. Here's a kitchen sink example:

```diff
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
+      // A workspace's `build` task depends on that workspace's
+      // topological dependencies' and devDependencies'
+      // `build` tasks  being completed first. The `^` symbol
+      // indicates an upstream dependency.
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
+      // A workspace's `test` task depends on that workspace's
+      // own `build` task being completed first.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
+      // A workspace's `test` task should only be rerun when
+      // either a `.tsx` or `.ts` file has changed.
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.tsx"]
    },
    "lint": {
+      // A workspace's `lint` task has no dependencies and
+      // can be run whenever.
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
+      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
+      // `test`, and `lint` tasks of the same workspace
+      // being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

Let's walk through some common patterns you'll want to get to know before diving in to `turbo.json`.

### Dependencies between tasks

#### In the same workspace

There might be tasks which need to run _before_ other tasks. For instance, `build` might need to be run before `deploy`.

If both tasks are in the same workspace, you can specify the relationship like this:

```json filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {},
    "deploy": {
      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
      // task of the same workspace being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

This means that whenever `turbo run deploy` is run, `build` will also be run inside the same workspace.

#### In a different workspace

A common pattern in monorepos is to declare that a workspace's `build` task should only run once the `build` tasks of all _the workspaces it depends on_ are complete.

The `^` symbol explicitly declares that the task has a dependency on a task in a workspace it depends on.

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      // "A workspace's `build` command depends on its dependencies'
      // and devDependencies' `build` commands being completed first"
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### No dependencies

An empty dependency list (`dependsOn` is either undefined or `[]`) means that nothing needs to run before this task! After all, it has NO dependencies.

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "lint": {
      // A workspace's `lint` command has no dependencies and can be run
      // whenever.
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

#### Specific workspace-tasks

Sometimes, you may want to create a workspace-task dependency on another workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna` or `rush`, where tasks are run in separate phases by default. Sometimes these configurations make assumptions that cannot be expressed in a simple `pipeline` configuration, as seen above. Or you may just want to express sequences of tasks between applications or microservices when using `turbo` in CI/CD.

For these cases, you can express these relationships in your `pipeline` configuration using the `<workspace>#<task>` syntax.
The example below describes the `deploy` script of a `frontend` application that depends on the `deploy` and `health-check` scripts of `backend`, as well as the `test` script of a `ui` workspace:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    // Standard configuration
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    "deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["test", "build"],
      "outputs": []
    },

    // Explicit workspace-task to workspace-task dependency
    "frontend#deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["ui#test", "backend#deploy", "backend#health-check"],
      "outputs": []
    },
  }
}
```

This explicit configuration for `frontend#deploy` may seem to conflict with the `test` and `deploy` task configurations, but it does not. Since `test` and `deploy` do not have dependencies in other workspaces (e.g. `^<task>`), they can execute any time after their workspace's `build` and `test` scripts have finished.

<Callout>
  Notes:

1. Although this `<workspace>#<task>` syntax is a useful escape hatch, we generally recommend using it for deployment orchestration tasks such as health checks, rather than build-time dependencies, so that Turborepo can optimize these tasks more efficiently
1. Package-tasks do not inherit cache configuration. You must redeclare
   [`outputs`](../reference/configuration#outputs) at the moment.

</Callout>

### Running tasks from the root

`turbo` can run tasks that exist in the `package.json` file at the root of the monorepo.
These must be explicitly added to the pipeline configuration using the key syntax `"//#<task>"`. This is
true even for tasks that already have their own entry. For example, if your pipeline declares a `"build"` task,
and you want to include the `build` script defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` file with
`turbo run build`, you must opt the root into it by declaring `"//#build": {...}` in your configuration.
Conversely, you _do not_ need to define a generic `"my-task": {...}` entry if all you need is `"//#my-task": {...}`.

A sample pipeline that defines the root task `format` and opts the root into `test` might look like:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    // This will cause the "test" script to be included when
    // "turbo run test" is run
    "//#test": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": []
    },
    // This will cause the "format" script in the root package.json
    // to be run when "turbo run format" is run. Since the general
    // "format" task is not defined, only the root's "format" script
    // will be run.
    "//#format": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": ["dist/**/*"],
      "inputs": ["version.txt"]
    },
  }
}
```

**A note on recursion**: Scripts defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` often call `turbo` themselves.
For example, the `build` script might be `turbo run build`. In this situation, including `//#build` in
`turbo run build` will cause infinite recursion. It is for this reason that tasks run from the monorepo's root must
be explicitly opted into via including `//#<task>` in the pipeline configuration. `turbo` includes
some best-effort checking to produce an error in the recursion situations, but it is up to you to to only
opt in those tasks which don't themselves trigger a `turbo` run that would recurse.

<Callout type="idea" icon={<HeartIcon  className="h-5 w-5 mt-1 text-gray-400" aria-hidden="true" />}>
Turborepo's Pipeline API design and this page of documentation was inspired by [Microsoft's Lage project](https://microsoft.github.io/lage/docs/Guide/pipeline#defining-a-pipeline).
Shoutout to [Kenneth Chau](https://twitter.com/kenneth_chau) for the idea of fanning out tasks in such a concise and elegant way.
</Callout>

### Tips

#### Tasks that are in the `pipeline` but not in SOME `package.json`

Sometimes tasks declared in the `pipeline` are not present in all workspaces' `package.json` files. `turbo` will gracefully ignore those. No problem!

#### `pipeline` tasks are the only ones that `turbo` knows about

`turbo` will only account for tasks declared in the `pipeline` configuration. If it's not listed there, `turbo` will not know how to run them.
