docs/pages/docs/core-concepts/running-tasks.mdx, before:

---
title: Running Tasks
description: Turborepo helps you specify task dependencies declaratively.
---

import Callout from "../../../components/Callout";
import HeartIcon from "@heroicons/react/solid/HeartIcon";

# Running Tasks

Every monorepo has two main building blocks: **workspaces** and **tasks**. Let's imagine you have a monorepo containing **three workspaces**, each with **three tasks**:

![](../../../public/images/docs/your-monorepo-excalidraw.png)

Here, both `apps/web` and `apps/doc` use code from `packages/shared`. In fact, when they're built (via `build`) **they need `packages/shared` to be built _first_**.

## Most tools don't optimize for speed

Let's imagine we want to run all our tasks across all our workspaces. In a tool like `yarn`, you might run a script like this:

```
yarn workspaces run lint
yarn workspaces run test
yarn workspaces run build
```

This would mean the tasks run like this:

![](../../../public/images/docs/yarn-workspaces-excalidraw.png)

As you can see, `lint` gets run in all the workspaces. Then, `build` gets run - with `shared` going first. Finally, `test` gets run.

**This is the slowest possible way to run these tasks**. Each task needs to wait for the previous one to finish before it can start. To improve on this, we'll need a tool that can multitask.

## Turborepo can multitask

Turborepo can schedule our tasks for maximum speed by understanding the dependencies between our tasks.

First, we declare our tasks inside `turbo.json`:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      // ^build means build must be run in dependencies
      // before it can be run in this workspace
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "outputs": [],
    },
    "lint": {
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

Next, we can replace our `yarn workspaces` script with this:

```diff
- yarn workspaces run lint
- yarn workspaces run test
- yarn workspaces run build
+ turbo run lint test build
```

When we run it, Turborepo will **multitask as many tasks as possible over all available CPU's**, meaning our tasks run like this:

![](../../../public/images/docs/turborepo-excalidraw.png)

Both `lint` and `test` run immediately, because they have no `dependsOn` specified in `turbo.json`.

The `build` task inside `shared` completes first, then `web` and `docs` build afterwards.

## Defining a pipeline

The `pipeline` configuration declares which tasks depend on each other in your monorepo. Here's a kitchen sink example:

```diff
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
+      // A workspace's `build` task depends on that workspace's
+      // topological dependencies' and devDependencies'
+      // `build` tasks  being completed first. The `^` symbol
+      // indicates an upstream dependency.
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
+      // A workspace's `test` task depends on that workspace's
+      // own `build` task being completed first.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
+      // A workspace's `test` task should only be rerun when
+      // either a `.tsx` or `.ts` file has changed.
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.tsx"]
    },
    "lint": {
+      // A workspace's `lint` task has no dependencies and
+      // can be run whenever.
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
+      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
+      // `test`, and `lint` tasks of the same workspace
+      // being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

Let's walk through some common patterns you'll want to get to know before diving in to `turbo.json`.

### Dependencies between tasks

#### In the same workspace

There might be tasks which need to run _before_ other tasks. For instance, `build` might need to be run before `deploy`.

If both tasks are in the same workspace, you can specify the relationship like this:

```json filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {},
    "deploy": {
      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
      // task of the same workspace being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

This means that whenever `turbo run deploy` is run, `build` will also be run inside the same workspace.

#### In a different workspace

A common pattern in monorepos is to declare that a workspace's `build` task should only run once the `build` tasks of all _the workspaces it depends on_ are complete.

The `^` symbol explicitly declares that the task has a dependency on a task in a workspace it depends on.

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      // "A workspace's `build` command depends on its dependencies'
      // and devDependencies' `build` commands being completed first"
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### No dependencies

An empty dependency list (`dependsOn` is either undefined or `[]`) means that nothing needs to run before this task! After all, it has NO dependencies.

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "lint": {
      // A workspace's `lint` command has no dependencies and can be run
      // whenever.
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

#### Specific workspace-tasks

Sometimes, you may want to create a workspace-task dependency on another workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna` or `rush`, where tasks are run in separate phases by default. Sometimes these configurations make assumptions that cannot be expressed in a simple `pipeline` configuration, as seen above. Or you may just want to express sequences of tasks between applications or microservices when using `turbo` in CI/CD.

For these cases, you can express these relationships in your `pipeline` configuration using the `<workspace>#<task>` syntax.
The example below describes the `deploy` script of a `frontend` application that depends on the `deploy` and `health-check` scripts of `backend`, as well as the `test` script of a `ui` workspace:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    // Standard configuration
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    "deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["test", "build"],
      "outputs": []
    },

    // Explicit workspace-task to workspace-task dependency
    "frontend#deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["ui#test", "backend#deploy", "backend#health-check"],
      "outputs": []
    },
  }
}
```

This explicit configuration for `frontend#deploy` may seem to conflict with the `test` and `deploy` task configurations, but it does not. Since `test` and `deploy` do not have dependencies on other workspaces (e.g. `^<task>`), they can execute any time after their workspace's `build` and `test` scripts have finished.

<Callout>
  Notes:

1. Although this `<workspace>#<task>` syntax is a useful escape hatch, we generally recommend using it for deployment orchestration tasks such as health checks, rather than build-time dependencies, so that Turborepo can optimize these tasks more efficiently
1. Package-tasks do not inherit cache configuration. You must redeclare
   [`outputs`](../reference/configuration#outputs) at the moment.

</Callout>

### Running tasks from the root

`turbo` can run tasks that exist in the `package.json` file at the root of the monorepo.
These must be explicitly added to the pipeline configuration using the key syntax `"//#<task>"`. This is
true even for tasks that already have their own entry. For example, if your pipeline declares a `"build"` task,
and you want to include the `build` script defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` file with
`turbo run build`, you must opt the root into it by declaring `"//#build": {...}` in your configuration.
Conversely, you _do not_ need to define a generic `"my-task": {...}` entry if all you need is `"//#my-task": {...}`.

A sample pipeline that defines the root task `format` and opts the root into `test` might look like:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    // This will cause the "test" script to be included when
    // "turbo run test" is run
    "//#test": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": []
    },
    // This will cause the "format" script in the root package.json
    // to be run when "turbo run format" is run. Since the general
    // "format" task is not defined, only the root's "format" script
    // will be run.
    "//#format": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": ["dist/**/*"],
      "inputs": ["version.txt"]
    },
  }
}
```

**A note on recursion**: Scripts defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` often call `turbo` themselves.
For example, the `build` script might be `turbo run build`. In this situation, including `//#build` in
`turbo run build` will cause infinite recursion. It is for this reason that tasks run from the monorepo's root must
be explicitly opted into via including `//#<task>` in the pipeline configuration. `turbo` includes
some best-effort checking to produce an error in the recursion situations, but it is up to you to to only
opt in those tasks which don't themselves trigger a `turbo` run that would recurse.

<Callout type="idea" icon={<HeartIcon  className="h-5 w-5 mt-1 text-gray-400" aria-hidden="true" />}>
Turborepo's Pipeline API design and this page of documentation was inspired by [Microsoft's Lage project](https://microsoft.github.io/lage/docs/Guide/pipeline#defining-a-pipeline).
Shoutout to [Kenneth Chau](https://twitter.com/kenneth_chau) for the idea of fanning out tasks in such a concise and elegant way.
</Callout>

### Tips

#### Tasks that are in the `pipeline` but not in SOME `package.json`

Sometimes tasks declared in the `pipeline` are not present in all workspaces' `package.json` files. `turbo` will gracefully ignore those. No problem!

#### `pipeline` tasks are the only ones that `turbo` knows about

`turbo` will only account for tasks declared in the `pipeline` configuration. If it's not listed there, `turbo` will not know how to run them.

Commit message:

docs(running tasks): explicit instruction for workspace tasks
After a couple of hours of debugging why my workspace-specific tasks wasn't running, I realised I wasn't using the correct name in place of `<workspace>` so Turborepo never ran my workspace-specific task:

before:
```json
{
  "build": {},
  "app-one#build": {},
  "app-two#build": {}
}```

after:
```
{
  "build": {},
  "my-org@app-one#build": {},
  "my-org@app-two#build": {}
}
```

I realise that his _might_ seem like a silly mistake, however since the `pnpm` and `turbo` commands allow for 'implicit' filtering using a partial name, e.g. by using `pnpm --filter=app-one` or `turbo run --filter=app-one`, I was kind of primed to setup my workspace specific task in the same way, even though the package name was actually `@my-org/app-one`.

Since this was not mentioned explicitly anywhere, it took me way too long to figure out my mistake. This change to the docs might help others not make the same mistake in the future.

docs/pages/docs/core-concepts/running-tasks.mdx, after:

---
title: Running Tasks
description: Turborepo helps you specify task dependencies declaratively.
---

import Callout from "../../../components/Callout";
import HeartIcon from "@heroicons/react/solid/HeartIcon";

# Running Tasks

Every monorepo has two main building blocks: **workspaces** and **tasks**. Let's imagine you have a monorepo containing **three workspaces**, each with **three tasks**:

![](../../../public/images/docs/your-monorepo-excalidraw.png)

Here, both `apps/web` and `apps/doc` use code from `packages/shared`. In fact, when they're built (via `build`) **they need `packages/shared` to be built _first_**.

## Most tools don't optimize for speed

Let's imagine we want to run all our tasks across all our workspaces. In a tool like `yarn`, you might run a script like this:

```
yarn workspaces run lint
yarn workspaces run test
yarn workspaces run build
```

This would mean the tasks run like this:

![](../../../public/images/docs/yarn-workspaces-excalidraw.png)

As you can see, `lint` gets run in all the workspaces. Then, `build` gets run - with `shared` going first. Finally, `test` gets run.

**This is the slowest possible way to run these tasks**. Each task needs to wait for the previous one to finish before it can start. To improve on this, we'll need a tool that can multitask.

## Turborepo can multitask

Turborepo can schedule our tasks for maximum speed by understanding the dependencies between our tasks.

First, we declare our tasks inside `turbo.json`:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      // ^build means build must be run in dependencies
      // before it can be run in this workspace
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "outputs": [],
    },
    "lint": {
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

Next, we can replace our `yarn workspaces` script with this:

```diff
- yarn workspaces run lint
- yarn workspaces run test
- yarn workspaces run build
+ turbo run lint test build
```

When we run it, Turborepo will **multitask as many tasks as possible over all available CPU's**, meaning our tasks run like this:

![](../../../public/images/docs/turborepo-excalidraw.png)

Both `lint` and `test` run immediately, because they have no `dependsOn` specified in `turbo.json`.

The `build` task inside `shared` completes first, then `web` and `docs` build afterwards.

## Defining a pipeline

The `pipeline` configuration declares which tasks depend on each other in your monorepo. Here's a kitchen sink example:

```diff
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
+      // A workspace's `build` task depends on that workspace's
+      // topological dependencies' and devDependencies'
+      // `build` tasks  being completed first. The `^` symbol
+      // indicates an upstream dependency.
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
+      // A workspace's `test` task depends on that workspace's
+      // own `build` task being completed first.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": [],
+      // A workspace's `test` task should only be rerun when
+      // either a `.tsx` or `.ts` file has changed.
      "inputs": ["src/**/*.tsx", "src/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.ts", "test/**/*.tsx"]
    },
    "lint": {
+      // A workspace's `lint` task has no dependencies and
+      // can be run whenever.
      "outputs": []
    },
    "deploy": {
+      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
+      // `test`, and `lint` tasks of the same workspace
+      // being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build", "test", "lint"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

Let's walk through some common patterns you'll want to get to know before diving in to `turbo.json`.

### Dependencies between tasks

#### In the same workspace

There might be tasks which need to run _before_ other tasks. For instance, `build` might need to be run before `deploy`.

If both tasks are in the same workspace, you can specify the relationship like this:

```json filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {},
    "deploy": {
      // A workspace's `deploy` task depends on the `build`,
      // task of the same workspace being completed.
      "dependsOn": ["build"],
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

This means that whenever `turbo run deploy` is run, `build` will also be run inside the same workspace.

#### In a different workspace

A common pattern in monorepos is to declare that a workspace's `build` task should only run once the `build` tasks of all _the workspaces it depends on_ are complete.

The `^` symbol explicitly declares that the task has a dependency on a task in a workspace it depends on.

```jsonc filename="turbo.json"
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      // "A workspace's `build` command depends on its dependencies'
      // and devDependencies' `build` commands being completed first"
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    }
  }
}
```

#### No dependencies

An empty dependency list (`dependsOn` is either undefined or `[]`) means that nothing needs to run before this task! After all, it has NO dependencies.

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "lint": {
      // A workspace's `lint` command has no dependencies and can be run
      // whenever.
      "outputs": []
    }
  }
}
```

#### Specific workspace-tasks

Sometimes, you may want to create a workspace-task dependency on another workspace-task. This can be especially helpful for repos migrating from `lerna` or `rush`, where tasks are run in separate phases by default. Sometimes these configurations make assumptions that cannot be expressed in a simple `pipeline` configuration, as seen above. Or you may just want to express sequences of tasks between applications or microservices when using `turbo` in CI/CD.

For these cases, you can express these relationships in your `pipeline` configuration using the `<workspace>#<task>` syntax.
The example below describes the `deploy` script of a `frontend` application that depends on the `deploy` and `health-check` scripts of `backend`, as well as the `test` script of a `ui` workspace:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    // Standard configuration
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    "deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["test", "build"],
      "outputs": []
    },

    // Explicit workspace-task to workspace-task dependency
    "frontend#deploy": {
      "dependsOn": ["ui#test", "backend#deploy", "backend#health-check"],
      "outputs": []
    },
  }
}
```

This explicit configuration for `frontend#deploy` may seem to conflict with the `test` and `deploy` task configurations, but it does not. Since `test` and `deploy` do not have dependencies on other workspaces (e.g. `^<task>`), they can execute any time after their workspace's `build` and `test` scripts have finished.

<Callout>
  Notes:

1. Although this `<workspace>#<task>` syntax is a useful escape hatch, we generally recommend using it for deployment orchestration tasks such as health checks, rather than build-time dependencies, so that Turborepo can optimize these tasks more efficiently
1. Package-tasks do not inherit cache configuration. You must redeclare
   [`outputs`](../reference/configuration#outputs) at the moment.
1. The `<workspace>` part refers to the `name` field in the workspace's `package.json`. Make sure to use the same name, otherwise the task won't run.

</Callout>

### Running tasks from the root

`turbo` can run tasks that exist in the `package.json` file at the root of the monorepo.
These must be explicitly added to the pipeline configuration using the key syntax `"//#<task>"`. This is
true even for tasks that already have their own entry. For example, if your pipeline declares a `"build"` task,
and you want to include the `build` script defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` file with
`turbo run build`, you must opt the root into it by declaring `"//#build": {...}` in your configuration.
Conversely, you _do not_ need to define a generic `"my-task": {...}` entry if all you need is `"//#my-task": {...}`.

A sample pipeline that defines the root task `format` and opts the root into `test` might look like:

```jsonc
{
  "$schema": "https://turborepo.org/schema.json",
  "pipeline": {
    "build": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"]
    },
    "test": {
      "dependsOn": ["^build"],
      "outputs": [],
    },
    // This will cause the "test" script to be included when
    // "turbo run test" is run
    "//#test": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": []
    },
    // This will cause the "format" script in the root package.json
    // to be run when "turbo run format" is run. Since the general
    // "format" task is not defined, only the root's "format" script
    // will be run.
    "//#format": {
      "dependsOn": [],
      "outputs": ["dist/**/*"],
      "inputs": ["version.txt"]
    },
  }
}
```

**A note on recursion**: Scripts defined in the monorepo's root `package.json` often call `turbo` themselves.
For example, the `build` script might be `turbo run build`. In this situation, including `//#build` in
`turbo run build` will cause infinite recursion. It is for this reason that tasks run from the monorepo's root must
be explicitly opted into via including `//#<task>` in the pipeline configuration. `turbo` includes
some best-effort checking to produce an error in the recursion situations, but it is up to you to to only
opt in those tasks which don't themselves trigger a `turbo` run that would recurse.

<Callout type="idea" icon={<HeartIcon  className="h-5 w-5 mt-1 text-gray-400" aria-hidden="true" />}>
Turborepo's Pipeline API design and this page of documentation was inspired by [Microsoft's Lage project](https://microsoft.github.io/lage/docs/Guide/pipeline#defining-a-pipeline).
Shoutout to [Kenneth Chau](https://twitter.com/kenneth_chau) for the idea of fanning out tasks in such a concise and elegant way.
</Callout>

### Tips

#### Tasks that are in the `pipeline` but not in SOME `package.json`

Sometimes tasks declared in the `pipeline` are not present in all workspaces' `package.json` files. `turbo` will gracefully ignore those. No problem!

#### `pipeline` tasks are the only ones that `turbo` knows about

`turbo` will only account for tasks declared in the `pipeline` configuration. If it's not listed there, `turbo` will not know how to run them.
