docs/pages/docs/handbook/migrating-to-a-monorepo.mdx, before:

import Callout from '../../../components/Callout';

# Migrating to a Monorepo

Migrating from a multi-repo setup to a monorepo setup can bring enormous benefits for productivity, especially if:

- You're finding it hard to share code between applications
- You want a unified approach on how your team builds code

It can be daunting to move to a monorepo. But with careful planning, it can go pretty smoothly.

## Folder structure

Let's imagine your multi-repo setup looks like this:

```
web (repo 1)
├─ package.json

docs (repo 2)
├─ package.json

app (repo 3)
├─ package.json
```

You've got three repositories, `web`, `docs` and `app`. They don't have any shared dependencies, but you've noticed _lots_ of duplicated code between them.

The best way to organise them in a monorepo would be like so:

```
my-monorepo
├─ apps
│  ├─ app
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ docs
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ web
│  │  ├─ package.json
├─ package.json
```

To start sharing code, you could use the [internal package](/docs/handbook/sharing-code/internal-packages) pattern, resulting in a new `packages` folder:

```
my-monorepo
├─ apps
│  ├─ app
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ docs
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ web
│  │  ├─ package.json
├─ packages
│  ├─ shared
│  │  ├─ package.json
├─ package.json
```

<Callout type="idea">
  If you're planning to move to a monorepo, try sketching out the exact folder structure you're aiming for.
</Callout>

## Managing dependencies

Once your apps are in the right folder structure, you'll need to think about their dependencies. Our section on [handling mismatched package versions](/docs/handbook/package-installation#handling-mis-matched-package-versions) should help.

## Handling tasks

Now your dependencies are looking healthier, you'll need to figure out how you're going run your tasks in your new monorepo. We've got sections on:

1. How to [configure tasks](/docs/core-concepts/running-tasks) with Turborepo.
1. How to set up your [development tasks](/docs/handbook/dev)
1. How to set up [linting](/docs/handbook/linting/basics)
1. How to [build your application](/docs/handbook/building-your-app)
1. How to set up [testing](/docs/handbook/testing)

Commit message:

Changed various structures and rewrote package installation/workspaces sections

docs/pages/docs/handbook/migrating-to-a-monorepo.mdx, after:

import Callout from '../../../components/Callout';

# Migrating to a Monorepo

Migrating from a multi-repo setup to a monorepo setup can bring enormous benefits for productivity, especially if:

- You're finding it hard to share code between applications
- You want a unified approach on how your team builds code

It can be daunting to move to a monorepo. But with careful planning, it can go pretty smoothly.

## Folder structure

Let's imagine your multi-repo setup looks like this:

```
web (repo 1)
├─ package.json

docs (repo 2)
├─ package.json

app (repo 3)
├─ package.json
```

You've got three repositories, `web`, `docs` and `app`. They don't have any shared dependencies, but you've noticed _lots_ of duplicated code between them.

The best way to organise them in a monorepo would be like so:

```
my-monorepo
├─ apps
│  ├─ app
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ docs
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ web
│  │  ├─ package.json
├─ package.json
```

To start sharing code, you could use the [internal package](/docs/handbook/sharing-code/internal-packages) pattern, resulting in a new `packages` folder:

```
my-monorepo
├─ apps
│  ├─ app
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ docs
│  │  ├─ package.json
│  ├─ web
│  │  ├─ package.json
├─ packages
│  ├─ shared
│  │  ├─ package.json
├─ package.json
```

<Callout type="idea">
  If you're planning to move to a monorepo, try sketching out the exact folder structure you're aiming for.
</Callout>

## Setting up workspaces

Once your apps are in the right folder structure, you'll need to set up workspaces and install your dependencies. Our sections on [setting up workspaces](/docs/handbook/workspaces) should help.

## Handling tasks

Now your dependencies are looking healthier, you'll need to figure out how you're going run your tasks in your new monorepo. We've got sections on:

1. How to [configure tasks](/docs/core-concepts/running-tasks) with Turborepo.
1. How to set up your [development tasks](/docs/handbook/dev)
1. How to set up [linting](/docs/handbook/linting/basics)
1. How to [build your application](/docs/handbook/building-your-app)
1. How to set up [testing](/docs/handbook/testing)
